hi I'm Bonnie toss senior editor at cnet
com and today we're taking a first look
at the HTC hero for sprint this is the
first google android device for the
carrier and as you may or may not know
sprint decided to wait on offering an
Android smartphone until now because I
didn't think the operating system was
quite ready when it first debuted and
thinking they were right to wait because
it might have paid off for sprint here
there's actually an HTC hero already
available in europe but it looks nothing
like the sprint version HTC has revamped
the design and gotten rid of the chin
which was on some of the other Android
devices like the t-mobile g1 and the
t-mobile mytouch 3G it's actually
surprised when I read some use your
comments complaining about the change
because i thought the chin just looked
weird it definitely gave the phones a
unique and memorable look while the
sprint HTC hero kind of blends into the
rest of the mix but still think this is
a very nicely designed smartphone it's
really compact and even though it shares
a similar shape to my touch 3g the build
quality feels better it doesn't feel
slick or plasticky and thanks to the
soft touch finish on the back a couple
of other advantages that the HTC hero
has over the other android phones is one
and offers a 3.5 millimeter headphone
jack so you don't have to deal with in
awkward audio adapters and two it
features a multi-touch screen so you
just like the iphone and palm pre you
can pinch the screen to zoom in and out
pages which is much more convenient than
tapping on the screen but i have to say
that it wasn't quite as smooth as the
pre or iPhones um it was kind of jerky
at times what really makes the HTC hero
different from the others is the HTC
Sense user interface this is something
the company first introduced with the
european version of the hero and what
they've done is basically replaced the
standard android UI with their own just
like they did with windows mobile and
its touchflo 3d interface so now instead
of three home screen panels you now get
7 and you can navigate through them by
sweeping your finger to the left and
right on each panel you can add various
widgets including standard android ones
and some that HT is it added like
Twitter and footprints which is an app
that lets you do tagged photos and then
send them off as postcards on top of all
that there's something called scenes
which lets you change the theme of the
phone depending on whether you're at
work
traveling or out on the town and so
forth for example the works screen shows
you things like upcoming appointments
and stock quotes whereas the travel
scene will display things like
footprints two and weather
information not going to lie this is all
very overwhelming at first but after you
take time to customize the various
screens really comes in handy and that's
part of the beauty of the heroes that
you can personalize it to your lifestyle
but underneath all that HTC Sense
goodness is still google android so that
means you still get access to android
market which has more than 8,000 apps in
the catalog now and of course you get
support for Google services like Google
search Google Calendar a gmail in
addition to gmail the hero can also
access other pop3 and IMF email accounts
and offers exchange synchronization for
Outlook calendar and contacts and you
can now open and view attachments right
from an Outlook message with documents
to go which you can do on the mytouch 3G
sprint also offers a number of its
services on the device including sprint
navigation and sprint TV the HTC hero
works on the carrier's evdo rev a
network and also has integrated Wi-Fi
and Bluetooth the included Google
browser offers flash support so you can
view streaming media sites like YouTube
right from the browser for other
entertainment options you can download
and purchase songs from the amazon mp3
store there's it a dedicated media
player and a 5 megapixel camera on back
there's obviously a ton of features
which you can read more about in our
full review as far as performance the
HTC hero is pretty responsive it's not
the fastest phone i've ever used and
there are some occasional delays but
it's generally up to task I'm still
annoyed that you can't save apps to an
SD card and battery life is another
thing to watch out for concern pretty
quickly with all the things that it can
do so if you find that you're constantly
low on battery consider retrieving your
email less frequently sign out a Twitter
or turn off gps when you're not using it
like I said at the beginning sprint
might have been smart to wait because i
think the HTC hero is more full-featured
and even more customizable device than
the g one and the mytouch 3g but i do
think the hero is better for people who
have a little bit of knowledge since
there's a bit more involved with the
phone whereas the palm pre has more of a
broader appeal and easier to use still
it's a very capable device and an
value at 179 99 with a two-year contract
the HTC hero will be available from
sprint starting on october eleventh i'm
bonnie cha this has been your first look
at the HTC hero for sprint